Wow. Stephen King trying to write a fantasy. That's like Britney Spears trying to rap, or Backstreet Boys trying to write a good song. It's just not going to happen A medicore fantasy would be the best of his ability, but of course there would be bloody killing. Basic fact of life: I don't like the author. I despise Stephen King, so if you love him, as in you would be offended if anything bad was said about your author, then I suggest stopping here. I mean, he's not even that good, and he's got all these terrible best selling novels, I'll just say that he struck it rich with the "thrills and chills" crowd that likes their children to read R.L. Stine. Nothing against those folks, but I just don't see the big deal about this guy. He’s no Ray Bradbury. He just can’t reach into different genres. Here's the basic rundown:  
 
The Characters  
 
King Roland--a king that is basically like "I'll do whatever the evil wizard tells me to do." Typical moron in these types of novels, not very well developed in the time he is in the book, which is not really that much, but still...he’s your typical king with a death wish.  
 
Peter--The ONLY well-developed character in the book. I hated his guts, of course (if he existed, I would. Unfortunatly, he has no guts to hate, so I guess it was a bad choice of words). Naturally, he’s the good looking good guy that you know will always win at the end, but you just don’t know how. The first son of King Roland’s, he’s destined to be the Prince, but of course the exact same evil plot to stop that from happening happens, just as in any “copycat” novel. Sigh.  
 
Thomas the choo choo train--Okay, just Thomas. I have to say I despised this character also. The second son of King Roland, he’s always overlooked. Of course, with his birth, the Queen Sasha died, so the first thought is that he is the bad guy. That’s partially true, actually. Anyway, his tragic birth was made possible in part by the evil wizard, Flagg, giving Roland an overdose of crack. (Okay, maybe not crack, but the same kind of stuff. Green vodka. I don’t know, but it’s probably illegal in all forty nine states. California is going to fall off and sink into the ocean, so I’ll count them off now).  
 
The evil wizard Flagg--GASP! Your typical, demon wizard set to take over the world. Need I say more, because I don’t really want to.  
 
Dennis the menace--also known as “Dennis the Butler”. He finds the dead body of a rat, and that’s basically his huge involvement in the book. Unless you would rather me spoil the ending?  
 
The Plot  
 
Cough....cough....uh, let's see. A fat little king named King Roland was not a bad, dictator king, but a good hearted king. A good heart, we soon learn, does not help you much in life when you are trying to be the oh-so powerful king of this little land. His main advisor, whispering his every move into his ear, is a black cloaked wizard named Flagg who is sooo unsuspectable when he gives King Roland this green gunk and we later find out his wife’s been killed by it. Such a nice guy. What an unpredictable plot. Yippie doo!  
Anyway, after deciding Thomas looked sexier than Peter, he decided to frame Peter for killing daddy. He shows Thomas an eyehole, where you can peek through the eyes of a dead dragon’s head, through the wall, to spy on dada. Anyway, after King Roland flashing the dragon while Thomas is looking through the eyehole, Thomas decides to go back (you horny man, you). Anyway, he sees Fragg giving Roland an evil drink, and Fragg devises a clever(?) plot...poison Roland and poison a rat with the same stuff (it makes smoke come out of your ears and it makes your body suddenly go up in a green fire, maybe you’ve heard of it. I heard listening to the Backstreet Boys may cause it). Anyway, put the dead rat in Peter’s room behind a bookshelf, and let Dennis find it.  
 
Typical, typical, typical. I do not like this plot. Do you? Getting bored yet?  
 
The Author’s Writing Skills  
 
Let’s just say that if you are looking for a corny piece of writing that would have gotten a “C” in sixth grade English class...then I highly recommend this book. I have nothing against King, I just think he shouldn’t be selling these vulnerable pieces of cr@p that won’t matter in three months, while these great writers never get their fair share of the pie. It’s always like that isn’t it? Even on Epinions, sometimes it’s one of the worst reviews ever...and it’s on the top of the list because  
 
a)People don’t care  
 
b)(S)he got easy raters  
 
c)he got highly recommended by an advisor, or  
 
d)he is an advisor.  
 
Now, I’m not giving out names, but I will say that I have read advisor opinions that aren’t worth cleaning the toilet with. That’s life, and as much as I hate it, it’s got to happen. How come the game Final Fantasy VIII sold millions of copies when it’s the most boring game I’ve ever played, and Monster Rancher 2 pretty much barely made it past the price they paid to make it and it’s a wonderful game? How come Mystery Men basically bombed, when the terrible movie Scream 3 was a big hit?  
 
It’s just an unfair world out there isn’t it, Charlie? That’s how it is with Stephen King’s writing ability. He’s got nothing, and yet every other book becomes a movie. It’s not justice.  
 
Overall  
 
Just pass on this one. I’m not sure if you liked Pet Cemetary or whatever, but just pass on this shallow plot, and go get The Doomsday Book by Connie Willis for a much better plot and writing talent 
