I've read most of the books written by Mary Higgins Clark and have enjoyed them. Before I Say Goodbye is her 22nd book and my least favorite of all of them. That doesn't mean I didn't enjoy it, I just felt her other novels were much more exciting and interesting.  
 
I read the back cover of the book and expected something completely different than the story before me. The synopsis indicated that Nell MacDermott had lost her husband, Adam, when a bomb blew up his boat. She had so many unanswered questions. When a woman approached her with psychic powers claiming to have contacted Adam in the after-life, Nell agrees to try to get the answers through this medium.  
 
This wasn't the story line at all - there was a hint at the paranormal and psychic abilities, but only a hint. Maybe Clark's publicist was trying to draw in those interested in the paranormal. The story was more based on Nell trying to clear Adam's name when bid rigging and construction scams are investigated by law enforcement agencies and her husband's name seems to be at the center of it all. Oh and did I mention that Nell's grandfather (who raised her) is a retired congressman who wants his granddaughter to follow in his political footsteps? With the black cloud hanging over her dead husband, Nell's political future is very uncertain. Nell goes on her on sleuthing expedition to try to get answers and ends up getting more than she bargained for and it's a race against the clock to save her.  
 
The characters are not very well described, but only vaguely outlined. That's probably the biggest detriment to the book - there were so many support characters that could have made for some fantastic subplots and the opportunities were wasted. For example, Nell's Great Aunt Gert could have an entire book devoted to her whimsical character. She's fun, eclectic and loves to explore the supernatural (didn't Mary Higgins Clark write an entire book for another support character with the same fun characteristics? Yep, remember The Lottery Winner?). Maybe the future will hold a book on Great Aunt Gert, which should be fun to read.  
 
Before I Say Goodbye is an average book, but definitely not on the top of Mary Higgins Clark's list of great books. Before I Say Goodbye leaves you wanting more - more character description, more in-depth plot, more subplots, more everything! I'd suggest it only if you've read all of her other books, but until then, leave it on the library shelf!  
