The first thing I liked about this book before reading it was the print size. The print is large enough to read without getting eye strain.  
 
This book is about children who have been altered through gene combining.The children are raised in a school that is like a military lab controlled compound. All of the children have the unique ability to fly but are discouraged from using this power.  
 
But this is just the basis on which the book is written. The real theme of the book is about love and trust. There is your man meets woman, but the two people who are thrown together in many thrilling situations fight this attraction. Later on they give into their feelings and open up to each other.  
 
They find out they have been betrayed by friends, co-workers and even the government.  
 
Tom aka Kit Harrison is a FBI agent who has lost a wife and two little boys in a plane crash. He is sent on a vacation because he is being overly interested in a case and won't go with the conventional ways of investigation. In other words he is an agent who is obsessed with a case and won't give up. But the real reason is that he is getting to close to discovering what the agency wants to keep a secret. This is the gene altered children.  
 
Frannie is a veterinarian that rents the cabin to Kit. Frannie is the widow of David. David's death is one of the deaths in the case that Kit is investigating.  
 
They get off to a rocky start but soon fall for each other even though they resist the feelings that they have for each other.  
 
Fannie sees Max in the woods one night. Max is one of the altered children. She and her brother Matthew escaped the compound by flying over the fence. Max has learned to not trust anyone especially adults who have done nothing but tell her lies all of her eleven years.  
 
Kit and Fannie eventually make friends with Max. This where the action starts. Kit and Fannie find out where the children are kept and make a daring rescue and then run into other thrilling adventures.  
 
Later on after the rescues and drama the children are united with their birth parents.  
 
This book has all that anyone could want. It is action packed with murder and mystery. Love and romance bloom. The ending is as it should be. A closure with tears and good feelings.  
