Murder, Mutants, Abuse, Torture, Doctors, Scientists, Secrets, Gun Shots, Betrayal, Sex, Love.... these are just some of what you'll find in James Patterson's book, When the Wind Blows.  
 
General Information  
 
When the Wind Blows is written by author James Patterson. It was published in 1998 by Little, Brown And Company.  
 
The hard cover version that I read had a total of 416 pages and unlike the other two books I've read by Patterson, I could actually find places where I could force myself to stop reading for the night. I've only recently started reading books he's written and confess that I'm already a huge fan.  
 
ISBN: 0-316-69332-4  
 
The Story  
 
Dr. Frances O'Neill, a well loved vet in Colorado, was working as usual in her place of business - the Inn Patient. Frannie as she's called by her friends, has had her share of heart break and loss. Her husband David, a doctor at the local hospital was murdered less than 2 years earlier. Frannie is a real softy which is what many of her clients and their owners loved about her.  
 
So there she was, minding her own business when one day this gorgeous hunk of man walks in and rents her cabin [which is being the Inn Patient]. His name is Kit Harrison and while she can't stand him and at the same time she can't help but like him - just a little. It takes quite awhile for Frannie to find out but Kit is not who she thinks he is.  
 
Then, Frannie's good friends husband is killed. They say it was an accident, that he hit his head in the pool; but it's very hard for those who knew him to believe. After much crying and several drinks, Frannie drives back home to the Inn Patient where she not only works, but has lived ever since David's death.  
 
On her drive home she thinks she sees something. She stops the car. Wait. What is that? Oh my God! It looks like a human girl. A beautiful little human girl - no more than 12 years old. But she has wings... and oh my God! She can fly!  
 
Frannie tries to gain her composure and then resumes the drive home. By the time she reaches the Inn Patient she's convinced herself that she couldn't have really seen a girl with wings. It just wasn't possible. It must have been the alcohol...... right?  
 
That's all I'll give you for the story. Sorry, but if I give you more than that I just may ruin the book for you. That's how Patterson writes. And in case you're wondering all of this happens in the first few chapters of the book!  
 
About the writing  
 
Like every other book I've read by Patterson, When the Wind Blows was thrilling and very hard to put down - making it very easy to read.  
 
Patterson captivates the reader from page one and if you think you'll find a stopping place at the end of a chapter - think again! Unlike the last book I read by Patterson Cradle and All, I was actually able to put down When the Wind Blows so I could get some sleep. It wasn't easy but I did manage.  
 
In the beginning of the book is an Author's Note. In this note, Patterson states that what he writes in When the Wind Blows is much closer to the truth than even he thought it would be. While in part, I have a hard time believing that - there's a part of me that knows there must be some truth to the matter.  
 
Overall  
 
If you're looking for an exciting book of fiction and science and doctors interest you, I recommend you give When the Wind Blows a try. There are some graphic parts which made me mad to read, but I don't believe it would be too much for anyone to handle.  
 
Thanks for reading ~  
 
Melissa  
