Airport books – those novels purchased in desperation by bored, cranky travelers seeking distraction from delayed planes – get a bad rap. Oh, sure, there are plenty of trashy romances and Chicken-Soupy self-help guides on offer in airport bookstores, but on the whole, the selection isn’t bad. When I have time to kill between flights, I like to wander through and browse (usually leaving a trail of knocked-over displays in the wake of my rolling suitcase). One of the books I’d see over and over again was The Da Vinci Code, and each time I saw it, it piqued my curiosity a bit more; but invariably, by the time I got home, I’d forgotten all about it. Finally, a friend loaned it to me, and although I’d intended it as an in-flight read for an upcoming trip, I couldn’t resist starting early.  
 
Robert Langdon, an expert in religious symbology lecturing in Paris, doesn’t exactly live a life of danger; he works the lecture circuit, writes scholarly books, and keeps his nose buried in ancient tomes. So it’s something of a surprise when the police come banging down his hotel-room door. Jacques Sauniere, a curator at the Louvre, has been shot to death in one of the museum galleries; in his last moments, he used his own blood and a marking pen to arrange his body in a bizarre tableau, complete with a coded message. Langdon has ostensibly been called upon in a professional capacity to help solve the mystery. But Agent Sophie Neveu, a police cryptanalyst, reveals the truth: Sauniere’s dying message included Langdon’s name, and the police are about to wrongfully arrest him as the killer. Neveu believes in Langdon’s innocence, and she has a special reason for wanting to find the real murderer: Sauniere was Neveu’s estranged grandfather. On the run from the police, Neveu and Langdon follow a trail of puzzles and clues to find the truth behind Sauniere’s murder, and the knowledge he died to protect – information that reaches back through the centuries to a secret society, an artistic genius, and a priceless historical artifact.  
 
I’ve always liked books that invite the reader to solve puzzles along with the characters, and Code has them in spades: anagrams, numerical cyphers, riddles, and secret scripts (at one point, a character offhandedly comments that at least 62 other words can be made using the letters of the word PLANETS, and I had to stop reading and try it out for myself). The puzzles range in difficulty from Instantly Obvious to Unsolvable Without Being Fluent In Greek. There’s also plenty of historical information, which is integrated smoothly into the prose; remarkably, even when inserted into dialogue, the explanatory asides don’t interrupt the flow. Brown ensures that readers who are unfamiliar with religious iconography and cyphers have all the necessary information to fully enjoy the story, without leaving advanced readers feeling bored or patronized. Even if you know all this stuff already, the author’s concise recaps are interesting and, as far as I can tell, well-researched and factually accurate.  
 
Brown’s writing is clean, precise, and detached, conveying information efficiently and minimizing its narrative presence in the story. The plot is appropriately full of twists and turns, with plenty of cliff-hanging action and a highly satisfying resolution, although some of the inventions seem a bit much (not only must there be a self-mutilating monk/assassin, but he must be an albino self-mutilating monk/assassin to boot). The character development is pretty much what you’d expect from an action-packed thriller – which is to say, minimal, unless it provides an excuse for more ass-kicking adventure. The focus is upon the ingenious puzzles-within-puzzles that Brown has devised, rather than the characters who try to solve them; for this type of story, that’s not a problem, although it does limit the book to entertainment rather than literature.  
 
A fast-paced, suspenseful, and surprisingly intelligent thriller, The Da Vinci Code deserves its good reputation. It’s fascinating, action-packed, and it’ll do more to stimulate your mind than an overpriced mocha at the Terminal B coffee cart. If you’re ready to let your powers of deduction take flight, give this first-class airport book a try.  
