Janet Evanovich’s series of books starring Stephanie Plum, an inept bounty hunter, was one of the most enjoyable books I’ve read in a while. Things get moving right away, with everything happening to poor Stephanie. But, I found myself laughing out loud many times while reading this book.  
 
Stephanie has some problems that have cropped up over and over in all the books in this series:  
 
She has “too many hormones” and they make her lust after two men: Joe Morelli, the cop who she’s known since childhood, and Ranger, the super sexy, dangerous and mysterious bounty hunter. Both men seem interested in her, and she’s not too sure what to do about it. In this book, however, she doesn’t seem to get much chance to do anything, even if she wanted to.  
 
Something keeps happening to her cars. The only car Stephanie can seem to keep undamaged is Big Blue, the big old boat of a car that her grandmother lets her drive when she is out of a vehicle.  
 
Stephanie became a bounty hunter when she lost her job. She is absolutely not qualified, but the boss is her cousin. Usually, she gets the easy jobs. But this time, her boss wants her to go after Ranger. No dummy, Stephanie absolutely refuses, even though that means her archenemy Joyce will get the job instead.  
 
Stephanie has a whole new set of problems now. First, Joyce is convinced that by following Stephanie, she will find Ranger. Some other people also think Stephanie will lead them to Ranger, and if not, she can be used as a hostage. Everywhere she goes, these men are following her. She comes up with some interesting methods of ditching her followers.  
 
One of the skips she is sent to bring in keeps trying to kill her. (By the way way, that’s the naked guy with the plastic bag on his foot. She finally had to shoot him.) She has more problems with the all of her skips.  
 
Stephanie also winds up with two unwanted and uninvited roommates: Grandma Mazur and a dog named Bob. Grandma is one of my favorite characters. She is a little old lady who just wants to have fun. She has her own gun and wants to be involved in Stephanie’s cases. She’s also on the lookout for a new boyfriend. The dog ends up in her life accidentally, when she promises to dog sit to help out a friend, and gets stuck with the dog.  
 
She can’t get a good night’s sleep, because either Grandma is snoring or somebody is breaking into her house and waking her up.  
 
And, of course, she just has to find at least one dead person, and be attacked at least a few times to keep things moving.  
 
This book brings in two new characters who are sure to become as popular as Grandma Mazur. Mooner is a bond skipper who she was sent to pick up. He keeps popping in and out of her life, and is a total stoner, dude. He shows up in the middle of the night to drop something off, having picked the lock so he wouldn’t disturb her.  
 
Dougie the Dealer is another new friend she inherits through Mooner. No, Dougie does not deal drugs (except Metamucil), but he does deal in everything else. He helps Stephanie a bit in this book, and even sells her grandma a red Corvette.  
 
If it’s not one thing, it’s another for poor Stephanie. She just can’t get a break. If you like a good laugh with your mysteries, this is the book for you. I suggest reading these books in order, but if you start out with this one, you’ll be able to follow what’s going on without knowing the background of the other books.  
 
