This is the sixth book in the Stephanie Plum series. If you have never had the fun of reading a book in this series do not start with this one. Go to the library and start with One For The Money and work your way up to Hot Six. Each book has the same characters, but there are fringe characters that are in some of the books and not in others.  
 
To begin with, Stephanie is a bounty hunter. She was down on her luck and needed a job and went to work for a relative than owns this agency. Is she qualified for this job? No, of course not. That's part of the fun.  
 
Stephanie has two love interests that she is having a problem choosing between. One of them is a Trenton vice cop, Joe Morelli. She has known him since childhood. The second is Ranger(not his real name), who is also a bounty hunter but is a man of mystery. He has saved Stephanie on more than one occasion. What's a girl to do?  
 
In Hot Six, Ranger becomes the hunted. The son of an international black-market arms dealer has been murdered and Ranger was caught on tape leaving the scene. He is wanted for questioning and Stephanie refuses the case. This does not mean that she won't become very involved.  
 
One of my favorite characters in this book is Stephanie's maternal grandmother. She is not your typical grandmother. Her favorite hobby is checking the obituaries and visiting the deceased in a particular funeral home. She also carries a gun that she picked up at a garage sale. Does she know how to use it? Of course not.  
 
In Hot Six she decides to leave Stephanie's mother and father's home and move in with Stephanie. As if that isn't enough, Stephanie is asked to take care of a huge dog that eats everything in sight. Stephanie's sex life is ruined.  
 
I chose to read Hot Six on the deck in my swing on a glorious day. As usual my German shepard was with me. All of a sudden he was so excited and trying to get on the swing with me. I wondered what got him started when I realized I was laughing out loud. There is humor, some of it wicked on every page.  
 
This is a fast paced story that you'll not want to put down. If you are offended easily by off color language or humor this book is not for you.  
 
Move over Sue Grafton and make way for Janet Evanovich. I can't wait for book #/# 7. Enjoy!  
