I’m a huge Stephen King fan, so when he came out with Eyes of The Dragon, I was ecstatic with happiness. Eyes of the Dragon, first off, is not a horror book like SK is known for, it’s a fairy tale/science fiction/fantasy book that is more into wizards and heroes than monsters and blood.  
 
In Eyes of the Dragon, SK proves again (as he does in all of his books) that he is at the top of his game still at his old age. Even though, he has retired, his memory still lives on through his wonderful stories. Eyes of the Dragon shows, yet again, that he can jump from genre to genre as he’s always done. For example, he jumped from horror (Carrie) to romance/drama (Dolores Claiborne) to fantasy (The Dark Tower) and did it well without controversy.  
 
THE STORY  
 
When King Roland dies, his kingdom is in turmoil because one of his sons, Peter, is framed for murdering him while his other son, Thomas, takes the throne knowing that his brother is innocent and that the wizard, Flagg, killed his father, but he doesn’t care because his father didn’t love him anyway so his father deserved his death. Will Peter become King like he rightfully should? Will Flagg get his deserved punishment? Will Thomas apologize to his father’s grave and to his imprisoned brother? FIND OUT AND BUY THE BOOK  
 
The book itself moves rather fast without leaving the reader in the dust about the character’s past. Usually in King’s books, he writes slowly and boringly so that all it does is get me NOT interested in one of his books (for example, “IT” was sort of like that and so was “Insomnia” FOR ME), but in a couple books, he writes them really well and makes me interested his characters (for example, “Bag of Bones”, “Misery”, “’Salem’s Lot”, and “Pet Sematary”).  
 
The only real thing that I didn’t AT ALL like about this book is that the ending was horribly rushed. It spent about 20 pages setting up the ending and then it took about three pages to pull it off and it was awfully unfinished and fast. It sucked because you dedicated 380 pages to all of the characters and then the ending just sucks. MAN!  
 
One of the coolest parts about this book is the artwork every couple of chapters. The chapters aren’t really long like most of Kings’ books (which is a good thing for readers on the go), but the artwork is amazing. I only artist I really like is H.R. Giger, but I’m really giving David Palladini, because his sense of textures and shading is pretty amazing and his art catches the visual side of the reader and is really enthralling.  
 
Overall, his character development is good, but I didn’t really get to know Flagg as much as I wanted to, so it sort of sucks because I sort of wanted to know his past, what his childhood was like. It was sort of disappointing to get to the end of the book and not know all of the characters as much as you wanted, but it’s no biggie.  
 
If you are a big Stephen King fan and love his work, but want a sort of break from his horror/sexual stories, then you should definitely check out Eyes of the Dragon because it is appropriate (he wrote it for his daughter and I DON’T THINK that there is that many cuss words or any sexual tension at all) and the story is sensational and unfolds at a fast, smooth pace. Buy it, you owe it to yourself and thanks for reading.  
 
JiggyJay  
