Once upon a time, Stephen King wrote a fairy tale. The eyes of the Dragon is a truly mesmorizing and fascinating story. A fairy tale for adults, but I think this could be for older children also. It doesn't have the customary violence and language that most Stephen King novels have, and it isn't so intense that it will frighten you. "Why then would I want to read it?" You may be asking yourself. Well you want to read it because it is a great novel.  
 
The story is set in an ancient kingdom called Delain. The story centers around two young boys, princes, the son of the King. The two brothers are Peter and Thomas. Peter, the oldest, is in line to be the next king. Peter is the perfect child. Everyone loves Peter, he is handsome, intelligent, and caring. Thomas, on the other hand is none of these. He is a lonely little boy disliked and ignored by all, even his father. Thomas is ignored by all, that is, except for one person: the kings magician Flagg. Flagg has been in the kingdom for years; as long as anyone can remember.  
 
Before Peter can become King, his father is murdered and he is framed for it. Since Peter is royalty, he can't be killed, so he is sent up into a tower to live out the rest of his life. The only people he sees are his guards. The only thing Peter has to pass his time is his dollhouse that he played with when he was little, the only other convience he was allowed was a napkin to eat with, these he specially asked for.  
 
Thomas is now the King. However, Thomas is young and needs someone to help rule the kingdom. Who would that be? Why Flagg of course. Thomas knows a secret that could destroy him and is slowly driving him mad. This secret could not only destroy him, it would definitely destroy Flagg. What is this secret? Read the story: find out. Will Peter ever get out, or will he die in the tower? Once again read the story find out.  
 
I love Stephen King. The scarier the story the better. However, this is just about my favorite Stephen King story. It isn't scary, but it is enthralling. For the more avid King readers out there; check out the reference to this story in the Dark Tower series, Roland mentions some of the characters in this story that passed through his town when he was young.  
 
For anyone out there who just wants to read a good story, check out this book. It isn't violent (well there are a few parts, but not usual King violence). It isn't vulgar or sexual. It is just a great read. I recommend this to anyone and everyone.  
 
